layout: post
title: "Weekly Reflection"
date: 2018-10-12
---

<p> On October 10th our mastery skill was to apply contracts and examples to solve problems.And the Objective was to define primitive values to build a program. As a donow we found our flag collage that we made last class period, ad write down a description about the simple shapes that made up our flag. Few minutes of independent silence. My teacher called our attention and reviewed the Donow..he specifically listed down triangles,circle,square, and rectangle. He then explained how they are considred functions on pyret. As he continued the lesson he mentioned that in pyret images are first class values, he also went on about programs are able to describe themselves in two ways. One which are contracts the other as an example. Inside those contracts are API (Application Programming Interface). After that lecture we were sent to our computers to experiement contracts on pyret.I personally struggled with the specfic structure in the contract, due to past experiences with Dr.Racket I thought the contracts would look similar yet they weren't. That threw me off, my teacher came along and instructed my partner and I and gave us tips. Which really helped, now I know what to do and not. </p>
<p> October 11th was all about pair programming;which is a problem solving techique used by professional engineers, mainly for solving difficult problems. Our mastery for the day was to program to reproduce a complex output. However, the objective was to use pair programming to solve image problems. We learned that there are two roles in pair programming, Driver- responsible for keyboard and mouse and the Navigator- Thinks and reviews problems and checks for errors. Both roles need one another they contribute to two types of thinking that leads to success in problem solving. Low level thinking mainly focuses on details (driver) and High Level thinking focuses on the big picture (navigator). After that lecture, I went to my computer and worked with my partner we worked simultaneously giving hints and suggestions to one another which lead to success. We worked on pyret, trying to make contracts for given images. It was hard at times but we pulled through and got the best results. After that My teacher talked to the class about making our summaries at the end of every class, inorder to help us make our reflections on GitHub.</p>
<p> October 12 was mainly about updating my learning blog to meet my expectations. The objective was to create computationa artifacts,connect concepts, and the submit work on time. The class started off with a warm-up we reviewed a document filled with 4 examples, examples that showed different students reflections. After reading them we noted on our notebook tips and reviews on those responses. The teacher later on reviewed the document with us and listed reviews and norms on how he expects us to write our blogs. It was very useful, later we went on our computers and got on Github to make our very own reflections. I struggled with starting this weeks reflection I didn't know what to write or what to talk about. But I looked back on my notes and the expecations my teacher gave and now I present to you the reader my reflection of this week. The week didn't start so great but it ended with a satisfying result which is knowing about the connections behind data.</p>
